A bad penny always turns up.
A bad workman blames his tools. 
A bird in the hand is worth two in the bush.
A chain is only as strong as its weakest link.
A clear conscience is the sure sign of a bad memory.
A dog is a man's best friend.
A drowning man will clutch at a straw.
A flawed diamond is better than a common stone that is perfect.
A flea can trouble a lion more than a lion can trouble a flea.
A fool and his money are soon parted.
A foolish consistency is the hobgoblin of little minds.
A friend in need is a friend indeed.
A good beginning makes a good ending.
A good listener is a silent flatterer.
A happy heart is better than a full purse.
A house divided cannot stand.
A jack of all trades is master of none.
A job worth doing is worth doing well.
A journey of a thousand miles begins with a single step.
A leopard doesn’t change its spots.
A little learning is a dangerous thing.
A man is known by the company he keeps.
A man's home is his castle.
A miss is as good as a mile.
A new broom sweeps clean.
A penny saved is a penny earned.
A picture is worth a thousand words.
A place for everything and everything in its place.
A prophet is not recognized in his own land.
A rising tide lifts all boats.
A rolling stone gathers no moss.
A rose by any other name would smell as sweet.
A ship in the harbor is safe, but that’s not what a ship is for.
A soft answer turneth away wrath.
A stitch in time saves nine.
A sufficiently advanced technology is indistinguishable from magic.
A thing begun is half done.
A thing of beauty is a joy forever.
A tree does not move unless there is wind.
A tree is known by its fruit.
A watched pot never boils.
A word to the wise is sufficient.
Absence makes the heart grow fonder.
Actions speak louder than words.
Adding manpower to a late software project makes it later.
All for one and one for all.
All that glitters is not gold.
All the world is a stage.
All things come to he who waits.
All we learn from history is that we learn nothing from history.
All work and no play makes Jack a dull boy.
All is fair in love and war.
All is well that ends well.
Always cut the cards.
An apple a day keeps the doctor away.
An apple never falls far from the tree.
An hour in the morning is worth two in the evening.
An idle brain is the devil’s workshop.
An ounce of prevention is worth a pound of cure.
Any fool can know. The point is to understand. A Einstein
Any port in a storm.
Anything that can go wrong, will go wrong.
Aphorisms should be short in words and long in wisdom.
Appearances can be deceiving.
April showers bring May flowers.
As you sow, so shall you reap.
As you start to walk on the way, the way appears. Rumi
Ask a silly question and you'll get a silly answer.
Ask no questions and hear no lies.
Bad news travels fast.
Badges? Badges! I don't got to show you no stinking badges.
Barking dogs seldom bite.
Be careful you don't go from the frying pan into the fire.
Be careful what you wish for.
Be it ever so humble, there's no place like home.
Be not penny wise and pound foolish.
Be slow in choosing, but slower in changing.
Be the flame, not the moth. Cassanova
Beauty is in the eye of the beholder.
Beauty is only skin deep.
Beat swords into ploughshares.
Before you judge a man, you should walk a mile in his shoes.
Beggars can't be choosers.
Believe in the magic of new beginnings.
Best is the enemy of the good.
Better late than never.
Better safe than sorry.
Better the devil you know than the devil you don't.
Better to be poor and healthy than rich and sick.
Better to have loved and lost, than never to have loved at all.
Better to light a candle than to curse the darkness.
Birds of a feather flock together.
Brevity is the soul of wit.
Business before pleasure.
Carpe diem - seize the day.
Chance favors the prepared mind.
Chickens will come home to roost.
Cleanliness is next to godliness.
Clothes do not make a man.
Cold hands, warm heart.
Common sense is not so common.
Corporations have no bodies to be punished nor souls to be damned.
Cream always rises to the top.
Crime does not pay.
Cross the stream where it is shallowest.
Curses, like chickens, come home to roost.
Discretion is the better part of valor.
Do as I say, not as I do.
Do unto others as you would have them do unto you.
Don't bite off more than you can chew.
Don't bite the hand that feeds you.
Don't burn the candle at both ends.
Don't burn your bridges behind you.
Don’t cast pearls before swine.
Don't change horses in midstream.
Don't close the barn door after the horse runs away.
Don't count your chickens before they hatch.
Don’t cross the bridge till you come to it.
Don't cry over spilt milk.
Don't cut off your nose to spite your face.
Don't foul your own nest.
Don't give up the ship.
Don't hide your light under a bushel.
Don't judge a book by its cover.
Don't kill the goose that lays the golden eggs.
Don't look a gift horse in the mouth.
Don't make mountains out of molehills.
Don’t open a shop unless you know how to smile.
Don't put all your eggs in one basket.
Don't put the cart before the horse.
Don't shoot the messenger.
Don't speak ill of the dead.
Don't spit into the wind.
Don't take any wooden nickels.
Don’t think there are no crocodiles because the water is calm.
Don't throw out the baby with the bath water.
Don't throw pearls before swine.
Don’t worry about eggs that haven’t been laid.
Doubt is the beginning, not the end, of wisdom.
Do you understand the words that are coming out of my mouth?
Eagles don’t catch flies.
Easier said than done.
East or West, home is best.
Easy come, easy go.
Eat to live, don't live to eat.
Eighty percent of consequences come from 20% of the causes.
Embrace solitude; it’s the key to inner peace.
Empty bags can’t stand upright.
Eschew obfuscation.
Even a broken clock is right twice a day.
Every cloud has a silver lining.
Every day is a new opportunity. Embrace it!
Every dog has his day.
Every horse thinks its own pack is heaviest.
Every man has a price.
Expect the unexpected.
Experience is the best teacher.
Extraordinary claims require extraordinary evidence.
Familiarity breeds contempt.
Failing to plan is planning to fail.
Fall seven times; stand up eight.
Faults are thick where love is thin.
Finders keepers, losers weepers.
First come, first served.
Fish always stink from the head downwards.
Flattery, like perfume, should be smelled but not swallowed.
Flattery will get you nowhere.
Fools rush in where angels fear to tread.
For everything there is a season.
For want of a nail, a kingdom was lost.
Forewarned is forearmed.
Forgive and forget.
Forgive them, for they know not what they do.
Fortune favors the bold.
From the sublime to the ridiculous is but a step.
Gather ye rosebuds while ye may.
Genius is one percent inspiration and 99 percent perspiration.
Get out while the getting is good.
Give him an inch and he'll take a mile.
Give him enough rope and he'll hang himself.
Give me liberty or give me death.
Give me a lever long enough and I shall move the world.
Give the devil his due.
Go ahead, make my day.
Good bargains empty the purse.
Good fences make good neighbors.
Good gifts come in small packages.
Good things come to those who wait.
Great minds think alike.
Great oaks from little acorns grow.
Grin and bear it.
Growth begins where comfort ends.
Half a loaf is better than none.
Handsome is as handsome does.
Haste makes waste.
He couldn't pour water out of a boot with instructions written on the heel.
He couldn't hit the broad side of a barn door.
He who fights and runs away, lives to fight another day.
He who hesitates is lost.
He who laughs last, laughs best.
He who lives by the sword shall die by the sword.
He who pays the piper calls the tune.
Here today, gone tomorrow.
Home is where the heart is.
History repeats itself.
Hitch your wagon to a star.
Home is where the heart is.
Honesty is the best policy.
Hope for the best, but prepare for the worst
Hope springs eternal in the human breast.
Hunger drives the wolf out of the wood.
Hunger is the best sauce.
I think, therefore I am.
Idle hands are the devil's workshop.
If a job is worth doing it is worth doing well.
If at first you don't succeed, try, try again.
If every man sweeps his doorstep, the city would soon be clean.
If it isn’t broken, don’t fix it
If it's not one thing, it's another.
If the shoe fits, wear it.
If wishes were fishes, then no man would starve.
If wishes were horses, then beggars would ride.
If you buy cheaply, you pay dearly.
If you can't beat them, join them.
If you can't stand the heat, get out of the kitchen.
If you find yourself in a hole, stop digging.
If you have nothing to do, please do not do it here.
If you lie down with dogs, you wake up with fleas.
If you play with fire, you’ll get burned.
If you snooze, you lose.
If you tell the truth, you don’t have to remember anything. M. Twain
If you want something done right, you must do it yourself.
Ignorance is bliss.
Ignorance of the law is no excuse for breaking it.
Imitation is the sincerest form of flattery.
I’m going to make him an offer he can’t refuse.
In for a penny, in for a pound.
In the country of the blind, the one-eyed man is king.
In the quiet moments, we find our true selves.
It always takes longer than you expect.
It is not what you are called, but what you answer to.
It never rains but it pours.
It takes a village to raise a child.
It takes two to make a quarrel.
It takes two to tango.
It'll all come out in the wash.
It's an ill wind that blows no good.
It's better to be safe than sorry.
It's better to light a candle than to curse the darkness.
It's easy to be wise after the event.
It's never too late to mend.
It's no use beating a dead horse.
It's not over till it's over.
It's not the heat, it's the humidity.
It's not the knowing that is difficult, but the doing.
It's not whether you win or lose, but how you play the game.
It's the empty can that makes the most noise.
It's the squeaky wheel that gets the grease.
It's time to fish or cut bait.
Justice delayed is justice denied.
Keep a stiff upper lip.
Keep smiling, and the world will smile with you!
Keep your eyes peeled.
Keep your fingers crossed.
Keep your friends close and your enemies closer.
Keep your head above water.
Keep your nose to the grindstone.
Keep your powder dry.
Kind words will unlock an iron door.
Know thyself.
Know which side your bread is buttered.
Knowledge is power.
Laugh, and the world laughs with you; weep, and you weep alone.
Laughter is the best medicine.
Learn to walk before you run.
Least said, soonest mended.
Leave no stone unturned.
Leave well enough alone.
Let bygones be bygones.
Let he who is without sin cast the first stone.
Let nature takes its course.
Let sleeping dogs lie.
Let's cross the bridge when we come to it.
Life's deepest insights come from within.
Life is like riding a bicycle. To keep your balance, you must keep moving. A Einstein
Life is short, art is long.
Lightning never strikes twice in the same place.
Little strokes fell great oaks.
Live and learn.
Live and let live.
Live every day as if it were your last.
Look before you leap.
Love conquers all.
Love is blind.
Love makes the world go 'round.
Make a virtue of necessity.
Make haste slowly.
Make hay while the sun shines.
Make yourself all honey and the flies will devour you.
Man cannot live by bread alone.
Many are called but few are chosen.
Many hands make light work.
May the force be with you."
Measure twice and cut once.
Misery loves company.
Money isn't everything.
Money doesn’t grow on trees.
More die of food than famine.
Morgenstund hat Gold im Mund.
Murder will out.
Music hath charms to soothe the savage breast.
Nature abhors a vacuum.
Necessity is the mother of invention.
Never attribute to malice what can be explained by stupidity.
Never judge a book by its cover.
Never let the sun go down on your anger.
Never look a gift horse in the mouth.
Never put off until tomorrow what you can do today.
Never say die.
Never test the depth of water with both feet.
No man can serve two masters.
No man is an island.
No news is good news.
No pain, no gain.
Nobody expects the Spanish Inquisition!
Nothing ever gets built on schedule or within budget.
Nothing is certain but death and taxes.
Nothing succeeds like success.
Nothing ventured, nothing gained.
Oaks may fall when reeds stand the storm.
Oil and water don't mix.
Old habits die hard.
Once bitten, twice shy.
One good turn deserves another.
One hand for oneself and one hand for the ship.
One man's loss is another man's gain.
One man's meat is another man's poison.
One man's trash is another man's treasure.
One picture is worth a thousand words.
One rotten apple spoils the barrel.
Only a cat may look at a king.
Only the wearer knows where the shoe pinches.
Opportunity never knocks twice.
Opposites attract.
Out of sight, out of mind.
Patience in a moment of anger will avoid a hundred days of sorrow.
Pay no attention to that man behind the curtain.
People who live in glass houses shouldn't throw stones.
Physician, heal thyself.
Politeness costs little but yields much.
Politics makes strange bedfellows.
Possession is nine-tenths of the law.
Power corrupts; absolute power corrupts absolutely.
Practice makes perfect.
Practice what you preach.
Pride goeth before a fall.
Procrastination is the thief of time.
Rats desert a sinking ship.
Revenge is a dish best eaten cold.
Rome wasn't built in a day.
Round up all the usual suspects.
Seeing is believing.
Seek and ye shall find.
Self-reflection is the path to self-discovery.
Share and share alike.
Silence is golden.
Sink or swim.
Slow and steady wins the race.
Smooth seas do not make skillful sailors.
Still waters run deep.
Spread love and kindness wherever you go.
Stone walls do not a prison make.
Strike while the iron is hot.
Study without desire spoils the memory, and it retains nothing that it takes in. L. da Vinci
Tact is the knack of making a point without making an enemy. I. Newton
Take the bitter with the sweet.
Take the bull by the horns.
The apple doesn't fall far from the tree.
The bad workman always blames his tools.
The best revenge is not to be like your enemy. M. Aurelius
The best things in life are free.
The best-laid plans of mice and men often go awry.
The burnt child shuns the fire.
The course of true love never did run smooth.
The customer is always right.
The family that eats together stays together.
The devil is in the details.
The early bird catches the worm.
The eyes are the windows to the soul.
The grass is greener on the other side of the fence.
The harder you work, the luckier you get.
The higher the monkey climbs the more he shows his tail.
The hotter the battle, the sweeter the victory.
The leopard cannot change its spots.
The longest journey begins with but a single footstep.
The love of money is the root of all evil.
The more the merrier.
The more things change, the more they stay the same.
The nail that sticks out gets hammered down.
The only free cheese is in the mousetrap.
The only real mistake is the one from which we learn nothing. H. Ford
The number of transistors in an IC doubles about every two years.
The pen is mightier than sword.
The quality of mercy is not strained.
The perversity of the Universe tends towards a maximum.
The proof of the pudding is in the eating.
The road to hell is paved with good intentions.
The sea refuses no river.
The show must go on.
The squeaky wheel gets the grease.
The truth will out.
The teacher appears when the student is ready.
The truth is not always beautiful, nor beautiful words the truth. Lao Tzu
The turtle only makes progress when it sticks its neck out.
The walls have ears.
The way to get started is to quit talking and begin doing. W. Disney
The way to a man's heart is through his stomach.
The whole is greater than the sum of the parts.
The wish is father of the deed.
There ain't no such thing as a free lunch. TANSTAAFL
There are plenty of fish in the sea.
There are two sides to every question.
There is nothing good or bad but thinking makes it so.
There is no time like the present.
There is a first time for everything.
There's many a slip 'twixt the cup and the lip.
There's many a good tune played on an old fiddle.
There's method in his madness.
There's no accounting for taste.
There's no crying in baseball!
There's no place like home.
There's no rest for the wicked.
There's no such thing as a free lunch.
There's nothing new under the sun.
There is truth in wine.
Things aren't always what they seem.
Think first, then act.
Those who cannot remember the past are condemned to repeat it.
Time and tide wait for no man.
Time heals all wounds.
Time is money.
Time is of the essence.
To err is human, to forgive divine.
To infinity...and beyond.
To know the road ahead, ask those coming back.
Tomorrow is often the busiest day of the week.
Too many cooks spoil the broth.
Truth is stranger than fiction.
Turn the other cheek.
Turnabout is fair play.
Two heads are better than one.
Two wrongs don't make a right.
Two are company, three is a crowd.
Uneasy lies the head that wears a crown.
Variety is the spice of life.
Waste not, want not.
Water seeks its own level.
Well begun is half done.
We are too soon old and too late smart.
What can't be cured must be endured.
What cannot be settled by experiment is not worth debating.
What goes around, comes around.
What goes up, must come down.
What will be, will be.
What's good for the goose is good for the gander.
When all you have are lemons, make lemonade.
When in Rome, do as the Romans do.
When it rains, it pours.
When the cat's away, the mice will play.
When the going gets tough, the tough get going.
When you fish for love, bait with your heart, not your brain.
When your only tool is a hammer, every problem looks like a nail.
Whether you think you can, or you think you can't--you're right. H. Ford
While the cat is away, the mice will play.
Where there's will, there is a way.
Where there's smoke, there's fire.
While there's life, there's hope.
Who pays the piper calls the tune.
Why buy a cow when milk is so cheap?
Why don't you come up sometime and see me?
Winners never quit and quitters never win.
Words must be weighed, not counted.
Wrinkles should merely indicate where the smiles have been.
You can catch more flies with honey than with vinegar.
You can kill a man but you can't kill an idea.
You can lead a horse to water, but you can't make it drink.
You can take the boy out of the country, but you can't take the country out of the boy.
You can't always get what you want.
You can't fit a round peg in a square hole.
You can't fool all of the people all of the time.
You can't get the toothpaste back in the tube.
You can't go home again.
You can’t have your cake and eat it too.
You can't judge a book by its cover.
You can't make a silk purse out of a sow's ear.
You can't make an omelet without breaking eggs.
You can't squeeze blood from a turnip.
You can't take it with you.
You can't teach an old dog new tricks.
You can't unring a bell.
You can't unscramble an egg.
You do not fatten a pig by weighing it.
You don't get something for nothing.
You don’t see the forest for all the trees
You get what you pay for.
You have to take the bitter with the sweet.
You have to take the good with the bad.
You made your bed, now lie in it.
You need to stop to smell the roses.
You need to take a bull by the horns, and a man by his word.
You pays your money and you take your choice.
You talkin' to me?
You're gonna need a bigger boat.
You're never too old to learn.
